README.md, before:

# Tutorials
Hcmusings

## Ruby and Rails notes
- [**Rails shopping cart**](Rails_Shopping_Cart.md):
  - How to build a simple grocery shopping cart and checkout on Rails

- [**Nokogiri webscraping**](Nokogiri_Webscraping.md):
  - How to use Nokogiri Ruby gem to scrape website information and render on Rails

- [**Rails authentication bcrypt**](rails_authentication.md):
  - How to build Rails user and password authentication from scratch with bcrypt Ruby gem

- [**Regular Expressions**](regular_expressions.md):
  - Commonly used regular expressions and Ruby methods

## JavaScript notes
- [**Functional JavaScript**](functional_js.md):
  - An introduction to functional programming in JavaScript

- [**React**](react_view.md):
  - How to build a simple Comment box with live loading using React Components

- [**Backbone.js**](backbonejs.md)
  - How to build a simple Comment box with localstorage using Backbone.js

## Node.js notes
- [**Node.js and Express.js**](node_express_intro.md):
  - Intro to node and setting up a boilerplate express web app with dynamic view templates

## Tutorials in progress
- **Node.js: authentication with passport.js**
- **Node.js: restful CRUD app**
- **Node.js: database migrations**

Commit message:

Added Part 2: Node authentication tutorial

README.md, after:

# Tutorials
Hcmusings

## Ruby and Rails notes
- [**Rails shopping cart**](Rails_Shopping_Cart.md):
  - How to build a simple grocery shopping cart and checkout on Rails

- [**Nokogiri webscraping**](Nokogiri_Webscraping.md):
  - How to use Nokogiri Ruby gem to scrape website information and render on Rails

- [**Rails authentication bcrypt**](rails_authentication.md):
  - How to build Rails user and password authentication from scratch with bcrypt Ruby gem

- [**Regular Expressions**](regular_expressions.md):
  - Commonly used regular expressions and Ruby methods

## JavaScript notes
- [**Functional JavaScript**](functional_js.md):
  - An introduction to functional programming in JavaScript

- [**React**](react_view.md):
  - How to build a simple Comment box with live loading using React Components

- [**Backbone.js**](backbonejs.md)
  - How to build a simple Comment box with localstorage using Backbone.js

## Node.js notes
- [Part 1: **Intro to Node.js and Express.js**](node_express_intro.md):
  - Intro to node and setting up a boilerplate express web app with dynamic view templates

- [Part 2: **Node authentication bcrypt and passport.js**](node_authentication.md):
  - How to build Node user and password authentication and authorizations with passport.js and bcrypt (Also how to set up a Docker and MySQL database)

## Tutorials in progress
- **Node.js: database migrations**
- **Node.js: full CRUD app with MongoDB**
- **Node.js: ORM models with Bookshelf.js**
